                          COLUMNS - A Tetris-Like Game
                                  Version 1.01

   COLUMNS is a single-player game in which one attempts to manipulate multi-
   colored tiles in order to form sequences of three boxes of the same color
   -- arranged horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.

   The COLUMNS game board is a 6 x 18 array of squares.  The playing tiles
   drop from the top of the screen, and are comprised of 3 boxes arranged in a
   column -- each box has one of 6 possible colors.

   Tiles drop one at a time, and may be manipulated in one of four different
   ways: 1) moving the tile one column to the left (the left command), 2)
   moving the tile one column to the right (right), 3) cycling the colors
   downward within the tile (cycle), and 4) dropping the tile straight down
   into place (drop).  You can apply the right, left, and cycle commands as
   often as you wish while the tile is falling.

   The game ends when a tile is placed and -- after counting all sequences and
   removing the boxes involved -- a box remains touching the ceiling line at
   the top of the game board.

                                 RUNNING COLUMNS

   To run COLUMNS:

                     COLUMNS [/T] [/G] [/S] [/M] [/C <num>]

     /T: Force COLUMNS to run in text mode.  This is the default on the CGA
         display

     /G: Force COLUMNS to run in graphics mode.  This is the default on the
         EGA and VGA displays.

     /S: Silent.  Beep option is initially off.  When on, this option causes
         COLUMNS to beep whenever points are scored.

     /M: Monochrome.  Only meaningful in graphics mode.  Replaces the six
         colors with six different monochrome crosshatch patterns.  This is
         the only graphics mode available for COLUMNS on the CGA display.

     /C: On COLUMNS startup, cut the Top Ten scores file to contain only the
         top <num> scores per person.  For example, if player "jsmith"
         occupies five of the Top Ten spots, "COLUMNS /C 3" will remove his
         two lowest scores from the file.  The option does not affect
         administration of the Top Ten file while COLUMNS is running -- only
         what is done at startup time.












                                COLUMNS - Page 1






                                      KEYS

   The following keys are active during the game:

   4, 5, 6, 2:

       These are the left, cycle, right, and drop commands as mapped onto
       a numeric keypad.

   J, K, L, <SPACE>:

       These are the left, cycle, right, and drop keyboard commands for a
       right-handed player.

   S, D, F, <SPACE>:

       These are the left, cycle, right, and drop keyboard commands for a
       left-handed player.

   Q:

       Quit COLUMNS immediately.

   R:

       End the current game, reset the game board, and start over.

   P:

       Pause.  Pressing any key while paused resumes the game.

   B:

       Toggle the beep option.

   +:

       Increase the difficulty level by 1.





















                                COLUMNS - Page 2






                                     SCORING

   The object of the game is to arrange the tiles on the game board such that
   boxes of the same color line up in sequences of three or more boxes.  A
   sequence may be formed horizontally, vertically, or diagonally.  Points are
   earned when such a sequence is formed: the scoring is a function of the
   number of boxes in the sequence, the current level of difficulty, and, if
   the drop command is used, how far the current tile dropped.

   Any time a sequence of three or more boxes is formed, the boxes in the
   sequence are removed from the board, and all boxes located above those
   removed collapse to occupy the vacated squares on the game board.  If the
   new arrangement of boxes (after the collapse) forms more sequences, these
   are also removed and points are scored.

                                DIFFICULTY LEVELS

   COLUMNS has ten difficulty levels -- the higher the level, the faster the
   tiles fall.  You choose the starting level at the beginning of each game.
   If you start at 0 (the easiest), the level will increase by one for every
   fifty boxes removed.  If you start at a higher level, the difficulty will
   remain the same until the appropriate number of boxes has been removed,
   then will start increasing.  (For example, if you start at 2, the level
   will stay there until 150 boxes have been removed.)

                                   THE TOP TEN

   COLUMNS keeps track of the top ten scores and displays them before each
   game.  After a score that qualifies you to enter the top ten, COLUMNS
   prompts for your name.  If you play more than one game during a session,
   COLUMNS remembers the name and offers it as the default input on future
   name input prompts.  If, when prompted for your name, you press the
   backspace key before any other keys, COLUMNS will erase the default input
   and give you a clear line on which to enter a new name.

   The Top Ten record is kept in a plaintext file called COLUMNS.HIS.

                                     AUTHORS

   COLUMNS was invented for the X Windows system by Jay Geertsen of Hewlett-
   Packard Co.  It was ported to DOS and enhanced by Nathan Meyers of Hewlett-
   Packard Co.

                                     LICENSE

   Permission is granted to freely distribute this game without charge.

    











                                COLUMNS - Page 3




